---
title: "F*ck Abed"
tagline: "An idiot in a long journey"
header:
  overlay_image: assets/images/idiot_in_camping_trip_resized.jpg
  caption: "Photo credit: [**biendltb**](https://biendltb.github.io)"
classes:
  - dark-theme
hidden: true
related: false
last_modified_at: 2021-01-03T23:25:25+07:00
---

Hi, Abed.

I've never written a message by this type but making this site is the first work that I did in 2021. I always want to have my own space for writing and reflecting things. I used to pay a price greater than my Super Dry jacket to buy a host and domain for sharing what I learned during my MSc and ended up at writing nothing. So this blog basically suits my purposes when I could write stuff in Visual Code ;) Eh, you once told me that you are also build up your portfolio so this could be a good way to write down our knowledge, too.

Alright, let's back to the main story here. I know you've started a new lifestyle where you focus more on your inner self and distance yourself from noisy stuff in social life. I wouldn't say that I've experienced similar things to you but after reading the book _Quiet_, I do believe that the inner personalities that we have matter and we shouldn't underrate them. I often feel suffocated from too many social interactions. I've started to withdraw from unimportance social events and meetings, and learn to enjoy life at a slower pace.

Looking back to the previous year, I'm sure that we both have the same feeling that we didn't satisfy with it. There are many changes happening that stale our excitement of the beginning and diverge us from our initial goals. But as you said, a lot of startups failed by the same reasons. However, I believe that we got to understand each other more and we learned what we should improve through those works. We might need more time to make our "self" be more mature and ready for it. This year I will try the focus more on improving the way I live, learn and work.

I recently did some reading about discipline and motivation. I found that most of us focus too much on the later while undervalue the former. Motivation does not last long usually and discipline is also if we do not make it practical. One of the interesting theory that I found is the _Broken Windows Theory_. It sounds not related here of what I mentioned but let me give an example: I decided to make a challenge 8 months ago: take the stairs to my office (which is in the 7th floor of a building) instead of elevators every morning. So let's say, one day I got sick and I will quit it for a day. Maybe in the other day, I will find another reason for not taking the stairs. So it's the broken windows theory, once you make a small hole in your windows, crimes are more likely to happen. But we chose to do it in a more practical way. If it's a day you didn't feel well, slow your pace down and take the stairs more slowly. The point here is that you do not quit it and this will increase the motivation in you over time. Once it becomes your habit, you will do it effortlessly. I've taken this small challenge for 8 months without quitting a single day. So **discipline** and a **practical** plan is a must to get things done. You cannot rely on motivation to go further, and it's hard to maintain a discipline without a practical plan. I've started applying this practice to different things in my daily life.

The last thing I would like to share is [this blog](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/7hFeMWC6Y5eaSixbD/100-tips-for-a-better-life). I found many interesting tips from there. Enjoy it!

Well, we are going to start another year. There are many things that we want to achieve but anyway, I always feel lucky to have a great soulmate and companion as you in this journey. Thanks for sharing it with me, Abeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeed.